# MEAM
## Mutation enrichment analysis around motifs of transcription factors
To assess the significance of the mutation enrichment within the motifs and around regions, we referred to the previously published method design for mutation enrichment analysis and realized it through self-developed code. 
* First, bedtools v2.27.1 was used to extract the overlap between the ChIP-seq peaks of the transcription factor in hematopoietic cell lines and the profile of APL CREs as previously established, we obtained the potential binding regions of each TFs in APL as the regions of interest for subsequent analysis. 
* Second, we scanned the motif positions in the regions of interest as the binding sites of the corresponding TFs. MOODS23 v1.9.4 was used to match the position frequency matrices of motifs from the database JASPAR against DNA sequences in the regions of interest. We set the parameter p-value to 0.0001. 
* Third, we calculated the mutation frequency at the motif positions of the transcription factor combined with the APL somatic mutation profile as above established, and further determined the mutation load by expanding the motif positions according to the specified base number, including 10bp, 20bp, 30bp, 40bp, 50bp, 100bp, 200bp, 300bp, 400bp, 500bp. 
* Fourth, the permutation test was performed to calculate the mutation frequency within randomly selected positions from the APL H3K27ac-positive regions. The randomly selected positions were consistent in number and length with the binding sites of the corresponding TFs in the regions of interest. This process was performed in 5000 iterations for each transcription factor.
* Finally, we transferred the mutation frequency within the motifs and around regions to the Z score according to the permutation test to evaluate the significance of the mutation enrichment.
